October release notes (#5164)
adobe/react-spectrum: packages/dev/docs/pages/releases/2023-10-06.mdx

{/* Copyright 2023 Adobe. All rights reserved.
This file is licensed to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy
of the License at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under
the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS
OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the specific language
governing permissions and limitations under the License. */}

import {BlogPostLayout, Hero} from '@react-spectrum/docs';
export default BlogPostLayout;

---

> description: In this release, we've extended support for links across all collection components! To streamline integration with client-side routers, we've introduced the RouterProvider component which will allow you to seamlessly incorproate client-site routers without the need to wrap a router Link component. We have also continued to make improvements and bug fixes to React Aria Components since its beta release. React Spectrum also has some new additons, including DropZone and isPending prop to Button. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: In this release, we've extended link support across all collection components! To streamline integration with client-side routers, we've introduced the RouterProvider component, allowing you to seamlessly incorporate client-side routers without wrapping a router Link component. Since its beta release, we have made improvements and bug fixes to React Aria Components. React Spectrum has new additions, including DropZone and isPending prop to Button. 
```

> allowing you to seamlessly incorporate client-side routers without wrapping a router Link component

This sentence needs a bit more work; whose "router Link" are we talking about?

date: 2023-10-06
---

# October 06, 2023 Release

> In this release, we've extended support for links across all collection components! To streamline integration with client-side routers, we've introduced the `RouterProvider` component which will allow you to seamlessly incorproate client-site routers without the need to wrap a router Link component ([see docs]()). We have also continued to make improvements and bug fixes to [React Aria Components](../react-aria/react-aria-components.html) since its beta release. Internal contexts have been refactored to allow for greater customizability ([see docs](../react-aria/advanced.html)), MenuTrigger and DialogTrigger now use PressResponder to work with any pressable component, and updated documentation to help improve adoption. React Spectrum also has some new additons, including [DropZone](../react-spectrum/DropZone.html) and the [isPending](../react-spectrum/Button.html#pending) prop to Button. 

Reviewer: can update this section once the previous one is addressed

As always, huge thanks to everyone in our community for their feedback and contributions to make this release possible!

### FileTrigger API update

> This release of FileTrigger includes an API change. If you were using a previous version, you will need to update your code. See below for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This Beta release of FileTrigger includes an API change. If you were using a previous version, you will need to update your code. See below for details.
```

> - The `OnChange` prop has been replaced with `OnSelect`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `onChange` prop has been replaced with `onSelect`.
```

- Add support for 'none' as a BorderSizeValue to hide border - [@pr7prashant](https://github.com/pr7prashant) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5012)
- Support links in collection components - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/4993)
- Cover all plural forms in NumberParser - [@jbovenschen](https://github.com/jbovenschen) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5134)
- Add TypeScript StrictMode to React Stately utils - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/3926)

## Fixes

- Update Toast placement to bottom center - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5107)
- Fix Unavailable MenuItem props - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5153)
- Fix Popover placement for placement="start"|"end" - [@reidbarber](https://github.com/reidbarber) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5137)

> - Remove Express icon dependency - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5130)

Reviewer: no need to include this, it was part of Update Express Breadcrumb icon, just turned into two PRs instead of 1 because we decided to alter the implementation

- Fix NumberField form submission - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/4300)
- Update Express Breadcrumb icon - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5059)
- Fix client navigation check in Firefox - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5106)

> - Fix Breadcrumbs menu padding - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5086)

Reviewer: this fell into links/and the other breadcrumb PR, no need to include it

the general gist is people can come here and see what changed for the version we're releasing, so we should be able to quickly look through this list for overall thematic changes

- Fix i18n circular dependency - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5087)
- Fix WHCM in Progress Bar - [@iamwillpowell](https://github.com/iamwillpowell) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5125)
- Fix error during SSR when first Table column is not a row header - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5160)
- Fix Unavailable MenuItem props - [@snowystinger](https://github.com/snowystinger) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5153)

> - Add fallback for Progress Bar's animation duration - [@iamwillpowell](https://github.com/iamwillpowell) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5136)

Reviewer: this technically didn't change from the last release, no need to include it in our list, the lightning CSS update broke it and we fixed it before it went out

- Update Breadcrumb Link section in docs - [@LFDanLu](https://github.com/LFDanLu) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5083)
- Add missing DatePicker states - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5158)
- Add docs for the Group component - [@devongovett](https://github.com/devongovett) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5060)

**React Spectrum DropZone** (Alpha)
- React Spectrum DropZone docs - [@yihuiliao](https://github.com/yihuiliao) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5076)
- Add chromatic stories to React Spectrum DropZone - [@yihuiliao](https://github.com/yihuiliao) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5053)

**React Spectrum Pending Button** (Beta)
- Remove UNSAFE_ from isPending prop - [@iamwillpowell](https://github.com/iamwillpowell) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5150)
- Add isPending to Button docs - [@iamwillpowell](https://github.com/iamwillpowell) - [PR](https://github.com/adobe/react-spectrum/pull/5150)

> What do we want to do with these commits?

Author: These are the commits that I didn't know where to put them. They can basically be broken down into three categories:
1. Upgrades to node/user event/CSS
2. Fixing the verdaccio build
3. Translations

Reviewer: Some discretion can be applied, we don't have to name every commit/PR, especially when they are mostly tooling updates or internal fixes to example apps
